MCA 306- Linux Lab Record programs
SET1: Commands
1. Installation of Linux Operating system.
2. Demonstrate a College Management system in Linux using File and Directory commands.
3. Familiarize and execute the commands of vi Editor.
4. Practice the Filter commands in Linux with suitable examples.

Grep  
wc filter
cut
tr

5. How to execute Redirection and pipes in Linux.

 pipes : tee
 Redirection

6. Implement File Administration commands in Linux.

su
sudo

7. Execute the Disk related commands in Linux
8. Illustrate the communication commands in Linux.


SET 2: Shell Scripts.

1. Write a script to read any 2 floating values and find the sum, difference, quotient, and remainder.
2. Write a script to read the length and breadth of a rectangle and radius of a circle and calculate the area
and perimeter of the rectangle and area and circumference of the circle.
3. Write a shell program to find
a) Sum of digits of a number
b) Reverse of the number
c) Determine whether the given number is a palindrome or not.
Programme Structure & Syllabus MCA 2020 | Page 66
4. Write a shell script to display the digits which are in odd positions in a given integer.
5. Write a script to read the basic salary of n employees and calculate the gross salary
If BP<15000, DA=30% of BP, HRA =Rs 500. TA = 10% of BP.
If BP >=5000, DA=50% of BP, HRA=15%, TA=1000.
6. Write a script to read the cost and selling price of an item and to decide how much loss or profit has
incurred by the seller.
7. Write a script to read 5 marks of n students. Find the total and return distinction if the total percentage
>= 80. [Distinction] if total % is >=60 and <80 [first class].if total % is >=50 and <60 [second class]
else print failed [<50].
8. Write a script to read a character and to display if it is lowercase, uppercase, digit or special character
or not a character.
9. Write a script to prepare a multiplication table of a given number to any order.
10. Write a script to find the value of one number raised to the power
11. Write a script to print all prime numbers from 1 to n.
12. Write a script to generate all combinations of a, b and c.
13. Write a shell script to sum up the following series
1/1! + 2/2! + 3/3! + ....
14. Write a script to read a year and to decide whether it is a leap year or not. If no year is supplied then
the current year is assumed.


15. Shell script to perform operations like display, list, make directory and copy, rename, delete, edit file.
16. Write a menu driven program to display the following options.
 Contents of /etc/passwd
 List of output of ‘who’
 Present working directory
 Exit
17. Write a shell script to find how many terminals this user logged in.
18. Write a script to accept a filename while running the script and check it has the write permission, if
yes prompt the user to enter a text and append the text to the given filename.
19. Write a shell script which displays a list of all files in the current directory to which you have read,
write & execute permissions.
20. Write a shell script which receives two file names as arguments.It should check whether the two file’s
contents are the same or not .If they are the same, delete the second file.
21. Write a shell script, which will receive any number of filenames as arguments .The shell script should
check whether such files already exist.
22. Write a shell script to perform operations for student data like view, add and delete records.
23. Write a shell script to sort the given numbers in descending order using Bubble sort .
24. Write a shell program to find the factorial of a number using function.
25. Write a shell program to determine whether the given string is palindrome or not using function.
26. Write a script to rename all c files to cpp files.
27. The word “mca” is present in some of the files supplied as arguments. Write a script to search each
of these files, and to stop at the first file containing the word “mca” and report it.
28. Write a script to receive any number of filenames as arguments and to check whether the arguments
supplied is a file or directory. If it is a directory, it should be appropriately reported. if it is a filename
then name of the file as well as the number of lines present in it should be reported.
Programme Structure & Syllabus MCA 2020 | Page 67
29. Write a script to read from a file which is supplied as a command line argument and count the number
of lines and words. If there is no filename supplied, the script should accept text from the keyboard.
30. Write a shell script which receives an even number of file names. Suppose four file names are supplied
then the first file should get copied into the second file, the third file should get copied into the fourth
file, and so on. If odd numbers of file names are supplied then no copying should take place and an
error message should be displayed.
31. Write a script to wish the user “Good Morning, Good Afternoon and Good Evening” when he logs in
to the system based on the time
